# CAMB-Neural-Network-Emulator
This repository is for my Master's project. 

The project focuses on the power spectrum from the cosmic microwave background radiation. There are currently numerical methods of calculating the power spectrum, but these take on the order of seconds, the power spectrum is a measure of fluctuations at different length scales and depends on things such as the shape of the universe, fluctations, and the time-scale (z). This project creates a feed-forward, fully connected neural network to replace the numerical methods. This neural network can the be used to find the angular power spectrum of a specific galaxy for certain universe parameters and optimises the parameters to get the calculated angular power spectrum as close as possible to the measured data.

I have focussed on 2 methods for training the neural network: the z-method and the grid-method. For the z-method the training data is the power spectrum from a random set of universe parameters and a random z for each set of parameters. The input of the z-neural network are the parameters of the universe and the time-scale, z. The output is a list of 200 numbers which corresponds to the y value of each point on the power spectrum. Whereas for the grid-method, the training data are the power spectra from a random set of universe parameters however each set uses the same 10 time-scales for every set of parameters, taken from a logspace distribution between 1e-4 and 5. The inputs are then the universe parameters but not the time-scales, and the outputs is a list of 2000 numbers corresponing to the power spectrum at each timescale.

The power spectra generated by the neural network are the used to calculate the power for a random given time-scale and length-scale. This is done by generating 10 power spectra at various time-scales and interpolating to get find a value of power spectra at an in-between time-scale and length-scale. This project is essentially comparing the time taken for the z-method to generate 10 different power spectra at 10 different time-scales to the time taken to generate 1 large power spectrum in the grid-method.
